title: FOSUserBundle Emails
link: http://cagataycali.com/?p=390
author: cagataycali
description: 
post_id: 390
created: 2015/03/30 23:08:50
created_gmt: 
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post

# FOSUserBundle Emails

The FOSUserBundle has built-in support for sending emails in two different instances. 

### Registration Confirmation

The first is when a new user registers and the bundle is configured to require email confirmation before the user registration is complete. The email that is sent to the new user contains a link that, when visited, will verify the registration and enable the user account. Requiring email confirmation for a new account is turned off by default. To enable it, update your configuration as follows: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.yml
    
    fos_user:
        # ...
        registration:
            confirmation:
                enabled:    true

### Password Reset

An email is also sent when a user has requested a password reset. The FOSUserBundle provides password reset functionality in a two-step process. First the user must request a password reset. After the request has been made, an email is sent containing a link to visit. Upon visiting the link, the user will be identified by the token contained in the url. When the user visits the link and the token is confirmed, the user will be presented with a form to enter in a new password. 

### Default Mailer Implementations

The bundle comes with three mailer implementations. They are listed below by service id: 

  * `fos_user.mailer.default` is the default implementation, and uses Swiftmailer to send emails.
  * `fos_user.mailer.twig_swift` uses Swiftmailer to send emails and Twig blocks to render the message.
  * `fos_user.mailer.noop` is a mailer implementation which performs no operation, so no emails are sent.
**Note:**

> The `fos_user.mailer.noop` mailer service should be used in the case where you do not want the bundle to send emails and you do not want to include the SwiftmailerBundle in your app. If you leave the default implementation configured as the mailer and do not have the SwiftmailerBundle registered, you will receive an exception because of a missing dependency.

### Configuring the Sender Email Address

The FOSUserBundle default mailer allows you to configure the sender email address of the emails sent out by the bundle. You can configure the address globally or on a per email basis. To configure the sender email address for all emails sent out by the bundle, simply update your `fos_user` config as follows: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.yml
    fos_user:
        #...
        from_email:
            address:        noreply@acmedemo.com
            sender_name:    Acme Demo App

The bundle also provides the flexibility of allowing you to configure the sender email address for the emails individually. To configure the sender email address for the user registration confirmation email update your `fos_user` config as follows: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.yml
    fos_user:
        #...
        registration:
            confirmation:
                from_email:
                    address:        registration@acmedemo.com
                    sender_name:    Acme Demo Registration

You can similarly update the `fos_user` config to change the sender email address for the password reset request email: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.yml
    fos_user:
        #...
        resetting:
            email:
                from_email:
                    address:        resetting@acmedemo.com
                    sender_name:    Acme Demo Resetting

### Sending HTML mails

The default mailer only supports sending plain text messages. If you want to send multipart messages, the easiest solution is to use the TwigSwiftMailer implementation instead. It expects your twig template to define 3 blocks: 

  * `subject` containing the email subject
  * `body_text` rendering the plain text version of the message
  * `body_html` rendering the html mail
Here is how you can use it: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.yml
    
    fos_user:
        # ...
        service:
            mailer: fos_user.mailer.twig_swift
        resetting:
            email:
                template: AcmeDemoBundle:User:resetting.email.html.twig
    
    
    {# src/Acme/DemoBundle/Resources/views/User/resetting.email.html.twig #}
    
    {% block subject %}Resetting your password{% endblock %}
    
    {% block body_text %}
    {% autoescape false %}
    Hello {{ user.username }} !
    
    You can reset your email by accessing {{ confirmationUrl }}
    
    Greetings,
    the Acme team
    {% endautoescape %}
    {% endblock %}