title: Using Groups With FOSUserBundle
link: http://cagataycali.com/?p=392
author: cagataycali
description: 
post_id: 392
created: 2015/03/30 23:09:19
created_gmt: 
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post

# Using Groups With FOSUserBundle

FOSUserBundle allows you to associate groups to your users. Groups are a way to group a collection of roles. The roles of a group will be granted to all users belonging to it. **Note:**

> Symfony2 supports role inheritance so inheriting roles from groups is not always needed. If the role inheritance is enough for your use case, it is better to use it instead of groups as it is more efficient (loading the groups triggers the database).

To use the groups, you need to explicitly enable this functionality in your configuration. The only mandatory configuration is the fully qualified class name (FQCN) of your `Group` class which must implement `FOSUserBundleModelGroupInterface`. Below is an example configuration for enabling groups support. In YAML: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.yml
    fos_user:
        db_driver: orm
        firewall_name: main
        user_class: AcmeUserBundleEntityUser
        group:
            group_class: AcmeUserBundleEntityGroup

Or if you prefer XML: 
    
    
    # app/config/config.xml
    <fos_user:config
        db-driver="orm"
        firewall-name="main"
        user-class="AcmeUserBundleEntityUser"
    >
        <fos_user:group group-class="AcmeUserBundleEntityGroup" />
    </fos_user:config>

### The Group class

The simplest way to create a Group class is to extend the mapped superclass provided by the bundle. 

#### a) ORM Group class implementation

##### Annotations
    
    
    // src/MyProject/MyBundle/Entity/Group.php
    <?php
    
    namespace MyProjectMyBundleEntity;
    
    use FOSUserBundleModelGroup as BaseGroup;
    use DoctrineORMMapping as ORM;
    
    /**
     * @ORMEntity
     * @ORMTable(name="fos_group")
     */
    class Group extends BaseGroup
    {
        /**
         * @ORMId
         * @ORMColumn(type="integer")
         * @ORMGeneratedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
         protected $id;
    }

**Note:** `Group` is a reserved keyword in SQL so it cannot be used as the table name. 

##### yaml
    
    
    <?php
    // src/Acme/UserBundle/Entity/Group.php
    
    namespace AcmeUserBundleEntity;
    
    use FOSUserBundleModelGroup as BaseGroup;
    
    /**
     * Group
     */
    class Group extends BaseGroup
    {
    }
    
    
    # src/Acme/UserBundle/Resources/config/doctrine/Group.orm.yml
    AcmeUserBundleEntityGroup:
        type:  entity
        table: fos_group
        id:
            id:
                type: integer
                generator:
                    strategy: AUTO

#### b) MongoDB Group class implementation
    
    
    // src/MyProject/MyBundle/Document/Group.php
    <?php
    
    namespace MyProjectMyBundleDocument;
    
    use FOSUserBundleModelGroup as BaseGroup;
    use DoctrineODMMongoDBMappingAnnotations as MongoDB;
    
    /**
     * @MongoDBDocument
     */
    class Group extends BaseGroup
    {