title: Overriding Default FOSUserBundle Controllers
link: http://cagataycali.com/?p=394
author: cagataycali
description: 
post_id: 394
created: 2015/03/30 23:14:49
created_gmt: 
comment_status: open
post_name: 
status: draft
post_type: post

# Overriding Default FOSUserBundle Controllers

The default controllers packaged with the FOSUserBundle provide a lot of functionality that is sufficient for general use cases. But, you might find that you need to extend that functionality and add some logic that suits the specific needs of your application. **Note:**

> Overriding the controller requires to duplicate all the logic of the action. Most of the time, it is easier to use the [events](https://github.com/FriendsOfSymfony/FOSUserBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/controller_events.md) to implement the functionality. Replacing the whole controller should be considered as the last solution when nothing else is possible.

The first step to overriding a controller in the bundle is to create a child bundle whose parent is FOSUserBundle. The following code snippet creates a new bundle named `AcmeUserBundle` that declares itself a child of FOSUserBundle. 
    
    
    // src/Acme/UserBundle/AcmeUserBundle.php
    <?php
    
    namespace AcmeUserBundle;
    
    use SymfonyComponentHttpKernelBundleBundle;
    
    class AcmeUserBundle extends Bundle
    {
        public function getParent()
        {
            return 'FOSUserBundle';
        }
    }

**Note:**

> The Symfony2 framework only allows a bundle to have one child. You cannot create another bundle that is also a child of FOSUserBundle.

Now that you have created the new child bundle you can simply create a controller class with the same name and in the same location as the one you want to override. This example overrides the `RegistrationController` by extending the FOSUserBundle `RegistrationController` class and simply overriding the method that needs the extra functionality. The example below overrides the `registerAction` method. It uses the code from the base controller and adds logging a new user registration to it. 
    
    
    // src/Acme/UserBundle/Controller/RegistrationController.php
    <?php
    
    namespace AcmeUserBundleController;
    
    use SymfonyComponentHttpFoundationRedirectResponse;
    use FOSUserBundleControllerRegistrationController as BaseController;
    use SymfonyComponentHttpFoundationRequest;
    
    class RegistrationController extends BaseController
    {
        public function registerAction(Request $request)
        {
            $form = $this->container->get('fos_user.registration.form');
            $formHandler = $this->container->get('fos_user.registration.form.handler');
            $confirmationEnabled = $this->container->getParameter('fos_user.registration.confirmation.enabled');
    
            $process = $formHandler->process($confirmationEnabled);
            if ($process) {
                $user = $form->getData();
    
                /*****************************************************
                 * Add new functionality (e.g. log the registration) *
                 *****************************************************/
                $this->container->get('logger')->info(
                    sprintf('New user registration: %s', $user)
                );
    
                if ($confirmationEnabled) {
                    $this->container->get('session')->set('fos_user_send_confirmation_email/email', $user->getEmail());
                    $route = 'fos_user_registration_check_email';
                } else {
                    $this->authenticateUser($user);
                    $route = 'fos_user_registration_confirmed';
                }